docs/_pages/docs.md, before:

---
title: '🖋️ Command Reference'
permalink: /docs
layout: single
sidebar:
  nav: 'command_reference'
---

| [`$`](/docs/$) | Run any arbitrary command |
| [`:`](/docs/colon) |  |
| [`::`](/docs/colon-colon) | Description of `::` |
| [`[`](/docs/[) |  |
| [`[[`](/docs/[[) |  |
| [`{{ '{{' }}`](/docs/{{ '{{' }}) |  |
| [`}`](/docs/}) |  |
| [`appendln`](/docs/appendln) |  |
| [`append`](/docs/append) |  |
| [`array`](/docs/array) |  |
| [`case`](/docs/case) |  |
| [`cleanSlate`](/docs/cleanSlate) |  |
| [`code`](/docs/code) |  |
| [`comment`](/docs/comment) |  |
| [`declare`](/docs/declare) |  |
| [`done`](/docs/done) |  |
| [`do`](/docs/do) |  |
| [`echo`](/docs/echo) |  |
| [`elif`](/docs/elif) |  |
| [`else`](/docs/else) |  |
| [`esac`](/docs/esac) |  |
| [`fi`](/docs/fi) |  |
| [`fn`](/docs/fn) |  |
| [`for`](/docs/for) |  |
| [`fromCommand`](/docs/fromCommand) |  |
| [`fromFile`](/docs/fromFile) |  |
| [`fromStdin`](/docs/fromStdin) |  |
| [`fromText`](/docs/fromText) |  |
| [`if`](/docs/if) |  |
| [`int`](/docs/int) |  |
| [`local`](/docs/local) |  |
| [`map`](/docs/map) |  |
| [`option`](/docs/option) |  |
| [`printf`](/docs/printf) |  |
| [`putAway`](/docs/putAway) |  |
| [`return`](/docs/return) |  |
| [`shift`](/docs/shift) |  |
| [`then`](/docs/then) |  |
| [`toFile`](/docs/toFile) |  |
| [`toStderr`](/docs/toStderr) |  |
| [`unset`](/docs/unset) |  |
| [`var`](/docs/var) |  |
| [`while`](/docs/while) |  |
| [`writeln`](/docs/writeln) |  |
| [`write`](/docs/write) |  |

Commit message:

Documentation for . , AND OR source

docs/_pages/docs.md, after:

---
title: '🖋️ Command Reference'
permalink: /docs
layout: single
sidebar:
  nav: 'command_reference'
---

| [`.`](/docs/dot) |  |
| [`,`](/docs/,) | Outputs a ';' semicolon |
| [`$`](/docs/$) | Run any arbitrary command |
| [`:`](/docs/colon) | Outputs the `:` null statement |
| [`::`](/docs/colon-colon) | Writes a ';;' for use in `case`/`esac` `option`s |
| [`[`](/docs/[) |  |
| [`[[`](/docs/[[) |  |
| [`{{ '{{' }}`](/docs/{{ '{{' }}) |  |
| [`}`](/docs/}) |  |
| [`appendln`](/docs/appendln) |  |
| [`append`](/docs/append) |  |
| [`AND`](/docs/AND) | Used for generating `&&` |
| [`array`](/docs/array) |  |
| [`case`](/docs/case) |  |
| [`cleanSlate`](/docs/cleanSlate) |  |
| [`code`](/docs/code) |  |
| [`comment`](/docs/comment) |  |
| [`declare`](/docs/declare) |  |
| [`done`](/docs/done) |  |
| [`do`](/docs/do) |  |
| [`echo`](/docs/echo) |  |
| [`elif`](/docs/elif) |  |
| [`else`](/docs/else) |  |
| [`esac`](/docs/esac) |  |
| [`fi`](/docs/fi) |  |
| [`fn`](/docs/fn) |  |
| [`for`](/docs/for) |  |
| [`fromCommand`](/docs/fromCommand) |  |
| [`fromFile`](/docs/fromFile) |  |
| [`fromStdin`](/docs/fromStdin) |  |
| [`fromText`](/docs/fromText) |  |
| [`if`](/docs/if) |  |
| [`int`](/docs/int) |  |
| [`local`](/docs/local) |  |
| [`map`](/docs/map) |  |
| [`option`](/docs/option) |  |
| [`OR`](/docs/OR) | Used for generating `||` |
| [`printf`](/docs/printf) |  |
| [`putAway`](/docs/putAway) |  |
| [`return`](/docs/return) |  |
| [`shift`](/docs/shift) |  |
| [`source`](/docs/source) |  |
| [`then`](/docs/then) |  |
| [`toFile`](/docs/toFile) |  |
| [`toStderr`](/docs/toStderr) |  |
| [`unset`](/docs/unset) |  |
| [`var`](/docs/var) |  |
| [`while`](/docs/while) |  |
| [`writeln`](/docs/writeln) |  |
| [`write`](/docs/write) |  |
