docs/_pages/index.md, before:

---
title: ''
permalink: /
layout: single
sidebar:
  nav: 'sidebar'
---

# 🖋️ Shell Pen

_Generate BASH from BASH_

---

Download the [latest version](https://github.com/shellbox-sh/ShellPen/archive/v2.0.0.tar.gz) by clicking one of the download links above or:

```sh
curl -o- https://shellpen.sh/installer.sh | bash
```

---

# Getting Started

Once you have [downloaded](https://github.com/shellbox-sh/ShellPen/archive/v2.0.0.tar.gz) the latest version of ShellPen, source the library:

```sh
source shellpen.sh
```

You're now ready to start generating shell script source code!

# Documentation

ShellPen offers three sources of documentation:

 - [ShellPen User Guide](/) (_this page_)
 - [ShellPen Command Reference](/) (_details for individual commands_)
 - [ShellPen Extension Guide](/extensions) (_for extending the built-in syntax_)


# Using Pens

**"Pens"** are BASH functions used to author snippets of BASH source code.

Every pen is associated with a separate snippet of source code:
 - _If you want to author 3 source code files, consider creating 3 separate pens_

To create a pen:

```sh
shellpen pens new [pen name]
```

Or use the preferred shorthand:

```sh
shellpen [pen name]
```

A pen can have any name (_which is a valid BASH function name_):

 - No spaces are allowed
 - It is recommended to not name your pen `:`
 - None of the following characters: `<` `>` `|` `(` `)` `!`

## `shellpen -`

When writing to only one source, the conventional pen name is: `-`

#### Create Pen

```sh
shellpen -
```

## `$pen code`

You will occassionally want to see the code written by your pen!

To do that, run `[pen] code`

#### Preview Generated Source

```sh
# Create a pen
shellpen -

# Write some source code
- echo "Hello, world!"

# Preview the generated source code
- code
# => 'echo "Hello, world!"'
```

## `$pen cleanSlate`

If at any time you wish to clear a pen's source code, run `[pen] cleanSlate`

```sh
# Create a pen
shellpen -

# Write some source code
- echo "Hello, world!"

# Preview the generated source code
- code
# => 'echo "Hello, world!"'

# Clear the pen's source code
- cleanSlate

# Preview the generated source code (now empty)
- code
# => ""
```

## `$pen putAway`

Once you are finished with your pen, put it away via `[pen] putAway`

This will delete the pen and any source code associated with it.

```sh
# Create pen
shellpen -

# ...

# Put pen away
- putAway

# Trying to use the - pen again will now result in an error
- code
# => -: command not found
```

# Writing Basics

The most basic pen function is `writeln` which appends one line of source code.

## `writeln`

```sh
- writeln "Hello this is some code text"
- writeln "More code goes here"

- code
# => "Hello this is some code text\nMore code goes here"
```

| [`write`](/docs/write) | [Appends text _without newlines_ but _with indentation_](/docs/write) |
| [`writeln`](/docs/writeln) | [Appends a line of text _with indentation_](/docs/writeln)  |
| [`append`](/docs/append) | [Appends text _without newlines or indentation_](/docs/append)  |
| [`appendln`](/docs/appendln) | [Appends a line of text _without indentation_](/docs/appendln)  |
| [`prepend`](/docs/prepend) | [Prepends text _without newlines or indentation_](/docs/prepend) |
| [`prependln`](/docs/prependln) | [Prepends a line of text _without indentation_](/docs/prependln) |


## `$ command`

`$ [command] [arguments]` is an alias for `writeln` for "syntax sugar"

```sh
- $ someCommand "Argument1" "Hello, world!"

- code
# => 'someCommand Argument1 Hello, world!'
```

When you want to generate code that calls a command, use `$`

- _Exceptions are_ `echo` _and_ `printf` _which have useful generation helpers_

#### `$$ command`

If you want the provided arguments wrapped in `"` quotes, use `$$` instead:

```sh
- $$ someCommand "Argument1" "Hello, world!"

- code
# => 'someCommand "Argument1" "Hello, world!"'
```

## `shebang`

If you would like to add a "shebang" or "hashbang" to your source:

```sh
- shebang

- code
# => '#! /bin/bash'
```

- You can also provide your own path, e.g. `- shebang /usr/bin/env bash`

## `function`

Use `function` to start the definition of a function and `}` to finish:

```sh
- function hello
  - echo Hello
- }
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->
```sh
hello() {
  echo "Hello"
}
```

ℹ️ Levels of indentation are automatically added in functions et al.

## `main`

Use `main` to add conventional code to run a function when the script is run:

```sh
- function hello
  - :
- }

- main hello
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->
```sh
hello() {
  :
}
[ "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" = "$0" ] && "hello" "$@"
```

# Variables

Helper functions are provided for declaring different types of BASH variables:

## [`var`](/docs/var)

```sh
- var x = 10
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
x=10
```

## [`local`](/docs/local)

```sh
- fn hello
  - local x = 10
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
hello() {
  local x=10
}
```
## [`int`](/docs/int)

```sh
- int x = 10
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
declare -i x=10
```

## [`array`](/docs/array)

```sh
- array x
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
declare -a x
```

##### With Items

```sh
- array x Hello World '$@'
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
declare -a x=("Hello" "World" "$@")
```

## [`map`](/docs/map)

"Map" is shorthand for defining an associative-array:

```sh
- map x
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
declare -A x
```

##### With Items

```sh
- map x [Hello]=World [Foo]="Foo Bar"
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
declare -A x=([Hello]="World" [Foo]="Foo Bar")
```

# Output

## `echo`
## `printf`
## `toStderr`
## `toFile`

# Conditionals

## `if / fi`
## `case / option / esac`
## `[ ... ] AND / OR`

# Loops

## `for`
## `while`

# Arithmetic

## `{{ '{{' }} ... }}`

# Pipes | STDIN

## `\|`
## `fromStdin`
## `fromFile`
## `fromCommand`

# Extending the Syntax

## `shellpen extend`
## `return 0 or return 1`
## `return 2`
## `\| AND OR`

Commit message:

echo wraps every arg in ""

docs/_pages/index.md, after:

---
title: ''
permalink: /
layout: single
sidebar:
  nav: 'sidebar'
---

# 🖋️ Shell Pen

_Generate BASH from BASH_

---

Download the [latest version](https://github.com/shellbox-sh/ShellPen/archive/v2.0.0.tar.gz) by clicking one of the download links above or:

```sh
curl -o- https://shellpen.sh/installer.sh | bash
```

---

# Getting Started

Once you have [downloaded](https://github.com/shellbox-sh/ShellPen/archive/v2.0.0.tar.gz) the latest version of ShellPen, source the library:

```sh
source shellpen.sh
```

You're now ready to start generating shell script source code!

# Documentation

ShellPen offers three sources of documentation:

 - [ShellPen User Guide](/) (_this page_)
 - [ShellPen Command Reference](/) (_details for individual commands_)
 - [ShellPen Extension Guide](/extensions) (_for extending the built-in syntax_)


# Using Pens

**"Pens"** are BASH functions used to author snippets of BASH source code.

Every pen is associated with a separate snippet of source code:
 - _If you want to author 3 source code files, consider creating 3 separate pens_

To create a pen:

```sh
shellpen pens new [pen name]
```

Or use the preferred shorthand:

```sh
shellpen [pen name]
```

A pen can have any name (_which is a valid BASH function name_):

 - No spaces are allowed
 - It is recommended to not name your pen `:`
 - None of the following characters: `<` `>` `|` `(` `)` `!`

## `shellpen -`

When writing to only one source, the conventional pen name is: `-`

#### Create Pen

```sh
shellpen -
```

## `$pen code`

You will occassionally want to see the code written by your pen!

To do that, run `[pen] code`

#### Preview Generated Source

```sh
# Create a pen
shellpen -

# Write some source code
- echo "Hello, world!"

# Preview the generated source code
- code
# => 'echo "Hello, world!"'
```

## `$pen cleanSlate`

If at any time you wish to clear a pen's source code, run `[pen] cleanSlate`

```sh
# Create a pen
shellpen -

# Write some source code
- echo "Hello, world!"

# Preview the generated source code
- code
# => 'echo "Hello, world!"'

# Clear the pen's source code
- cleanSlate

# Preview the generated source code (now empty)
- code
# => ""
```

## `$pen putAway`

Once you are finished with your pen, put it away via `[pen] putAway`

This will delete the pen and any source code associated with it.

```sh
# Create pen
shellpen -

# ...

# Put pen away
- putAway

# Trying to use the - pen again will now result in an error
- code
# => -: command not found
```

# Writing Basics

The most basic pen function is `writeln` which appends one line of source code.

## `writeln`

```sh
- writeln "Hello this is some code text"
- writeln "More code goes here"

- code
# => "Hello this is some code text\nMore code goes here"
```

| [`write`](/docs/write) | [Appends text _without newlines_ but _with indentation_](/docs/write) |
| [`writeln`](/docs/writeln) | [Appends a line of text _with indentation_](/docs/writeln)  |
| [`append`](/docs/append) | [Appends text _without newlines or indentation_](/docs/append)  |
| [`appendln`](/docs/appendln) | [Appends a line of text _without indentation_](/docs/appendln)  |
| [`prepend`](/docs/prepend) | [Prepends text _without newlines or indentation_](/docs/prepend) |
| [`prependln`](/docs/prependln) | [Prepends a line of text _without indentation_](/docs/prependln) |


## `$ command`

`$ [command] [arguments]` is an alias for `writeln` for "syntax sugar"

```sh
- $ someCommand "Argument1" "Hello, world!"

- code
# => 'someCommand Argument1 Hello, world!'
```

When you want to generate code that calls a command, use `$`

- _Exceptions are_ `echo` _and_ `printf` _which have useful generation helpers_

#### `$$ command`

If you want the provided arguments wrapped in `"` quotes, use `$$` instead:

```sh
- $$ someCommand "Argument1" "Hello, world!"

- code
# => 'someCommand "Argument1" "Hello, world!"'
```

## `shebang`

If you would like to add a "shebang" or "hashbang" to your source:

```sh
- shebang

- code
# => '#! /bin/bash'
```

- You can also provide your own path, e.g. `- shebang /usr/bin/env bash`

## `function`

Use `function` to start the definition of a function and `}` to finish:

```sh
- function hello
  - echo Hello
- }
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->
```sh
hello() {
  echo "Hello"
}
```

ℹ️ Levels of indentation are automatically added in functions et al.

## `main`

Use `main` to add conventional code to run a function when the script is run:

```sh
- function hello
  - :
- }

- main hello
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->
```sh
hello() {
  :
}
[ "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}" = "$0" ] && "hello" "$@"
```

# Variables

Helper functions are provided for declaring different types of BASH variables:

## [`var`](/docs/var)

- `var` Defines a generic BASH variable

```sh
- var x = 10
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
x=10
```

## [`local`](/docs/local)

- `local` Defines a `local` variable for use in a BASH function

```sh
- fn hello
  - local x = 10
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
hello() {
  local x=10
}
```
## [`int`](/docs/int)

- `int` declares a BASH integer value variable

```sh
- int x = 10
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
declare -i x=10
```

## [`array`](/docs/array)

- `array` declares a single-dimensional BASH array

```sh
- array x
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
declare -a x
```

##### With Items

```sh
- array x Hello World '$@'
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
declare -a x=("Hello" "World" "$@")
```

## [`map`](/docs/map)

- "Map" is shorthand for defining an associative-array:

```sh
- map x
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
declare -A x
```

##### With Items

```sh
- map x [Hello]=World [Foo]="Foo Bar"
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
declare -A x=([Hello]="World" [Foo]="Foo Bar")
```

# Output

ShellPen provides helpers for generating `echo` and `printf` commands.

## `echo`

- Any commands provided to `echo` will be wrapped in `"` quotes

```sh
- echo "Hello, world" foo bar
```

<!-- OUTPUT -->

```sh
echo "Hello, world" "foo" "bar"
```

## `printf`
## `toStderr`
## `toFile`

# Conditionals

## `if / fi`
## `case / option / esac`
## `[ ... ] AND / OR`

# Loops

## `for`
## `while`

# Arithmetic

## `{{ '{{' }} ... }}`

# Pipes | STDIN

## `\|`
## `fromStdin`
## `fromFile`
## `fromCommand`

# Extending the Syntax

## `shellpen extend`
## `return 0 or return 1`
## `return 2`
## `\| AND OR`
